Support for custom base page models (#14368)
wagtail/wagtail: docs/advanced_topics/customization/custom_base_page_models.md

Reviewer: I think this page should have a link somewhere to the "Adapting reusable apps to support custom base page models" page to help visibility. That page already has a link to this one, so that's good

Author: Added in bb0efcbbce8214ceb6f4c6ac444008f377e5c867 as a "See also" link

```

```{warning}
This feature is currently experimental. Some third-party packages may not be compatible.
```

After creating a Wagtail project as detailed in [](quick_install) or [](/getting_started/integrating_into_django), but before running `python manage.py migrate`, create a new app to contain the base page model by running `python manage.py startapp basepage` and adding `"basepage"` to `INSTALLED_APPS`. It is recommended to keep an app solely to contain the base page model, to minimise the possibility of circular imports.

Within `basepage/models.py`, define a page model inheriting from {class}`~wagtail.models.AbstractPage` containing your desired fields - for example:

```python
from django.db import models

from wagtail.models import AbstractPage

class BasePage(AbstractPage):
    category = models.CharField(max_length=100, blank=True)
    review_date = models.DateField(blank=True, null=True)

    promote_panels = AbstractPage.promote_panels + ["category", "review_date"]
```

`AbstractPage` provides all of the standard fields from {class}`~wagtail.models.Page` with the exception of `show_in_menus`, `seo_title` and `search_description`.

> Add the setting `WAGTAIL_PAGE_MODEL` to your project's settings file, giving the dotted path to the base page model:

Reviewer: It's not exactly a dotted path (`app.models.ModelClass`) to the model, right?

```suggestion
Add the setting `WAGTAIL_PAGE_MODEL` to your project's settings file, giving the {attr}`~django.db.models.Options.label` of the base page model (`app_label.ModelName`):
```

Author: Done in bb0efcbbce8214ceb6f4c6ac444008f377e5c867 - I settled for "the [label] of the base page model qualified by the app name".

Next, we must create a migration to add and populate the `locale` and `translation_key` fields. Run:

```sh
python manage.py makemigrations --empty basepage
```

and rename the created migration file to `0002_bootstrap_page_model.py`. Edit this file as follows:

```python
from django.db import migrations

from wagtail.models import BootstrapLocaleField, BootstrapTranslatableModel, BootstrapTranslationKeyField

class Migration(migrations.Migration):

    # Keep the existing dependencies list from the auto-generated migration
    dependencies = [
        ("basepage", "0001_initial"),
        ("wagtailcore", "0097_baselogentry_uuid_action_timestamp_indexes"),
    ]

    operations = [
        BootstrapLocaleField("basepage.BasePage"),
        BootstrapTranslationKeyField("basepage.BasePage"),
        BootstrapTranslatableModel("basepage.BasePage"),
    ]
```

We now create a final migration to add the remaining fields and constraints to the page model. Run:

```sh

> python manage.py makemigrations basepage

Reviewer: When running this command, you get

```shell
It is impossible to change a nullable field 'locale' on basepage to non-nullable without providing a default. This is because the database needs something to populate existing rows.
Please select a fix:
 1) Provide a one-off default now (will be set on all existing rows with a null value for this column)
 2) Ignore for now. Existing rows that contain NULL values will have to be handled manually, for example with a RunPython or RunSQL operation.
 3) Quit and manually define a default value in models.py.
Select an option:
```

I assume we should select (2)? Would be nice to document that.

Author: Ah yep! I had a feeling there was something I'd forgotten to mention there :-) Done in bb0efcbbce8214ceb6f4c6ac444008f377e5c867
